Hello,

Thank you for providing with data. Based on premilimary analysis of the data, I wanted to share a few concerns about the data quality. 
1. Non-atomic data: Several fields in the data are non-atomic i.e. multiple attributes in a single column which does not comply with the relational database
structure and hence makes querying and analysing data highly challenging. For eg. List of items bought under a particular receipt number is present in a single 
column which makes analyzing sales based on items very challenging.
2. Missing Data: There are multiple occurrences of missing data in the table which results in ambiguity.
3. Data redundancy: There is an issue of data redundancy, for eg. 'categoryCode' column does not store any additional information compared to 'category' column in
the brands data. Infact, majority of the category codes are null (have no value).
4. Data inconsistency: There are several occurences of data inconsistency, for eg. list of items under a certain receipt may have values for different attributes. 
If there is a possibility of reducing the number of columns by making attributes consistent across items, it could help in gathering better insights from data.
5. Duplicate values in IDs: There a several cases of duplicate values especially in the users dataset. Users data has information about 495 users but the ID column 
of users has only 212 unique values.

In order to create a consistent and reliable database, the above concerns that have come up from a preliminary analysis will need to be taken care of. A set of data
acquisition and storage guidelines can be put in place that will improve data management practices across the organization. To start off this process, a relational 
database system can be implemented which would help in creating atomic data with consitency. As a first step, an ERD should be created which will essentially
capture the overall architecture of the database that may ensure exhaustive and efficient data collection and storage with minimal redundancy. ERD can be worked out 
by collaborating with other functions as it will help in creating a robust database system. A relational database may ensure smoother and consistent flow of high 
quality data that could help in productionizing analytical models that may improve business and operational efficiency. 
We can setup a meeting to discuss the way forward and feel free to reach out in case of any concerns.

Thanks and regards,

Vineet Suhas Soni


